Add asset caching tutorial and split reference and concepts (#190)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/concepts/asset-caching.md

---
title: Asset caching with vcpkg
description: Use asset caching with vcpkg to mirror your asset's downloads to improve build reliability.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.prod: vcpkg
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 10/24/2023
---
# Asset caching with vcpkg

[!INCLUDE [experimental](../../includes/experimental.md)]

Asset caching is a feature that allows vcpkg to use alternative download
endpoints to acquire a package's assets. When asset caching is enabled vcpkg

> attempst to download assets (such as, source code and build tools) from a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attempts to download assets (such as source code and build tools) from a
```

> configured mirror location, if not available, vcpkg can download the file from
> the network and then store a copy in the mirror location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configured mirror location. If the asset is not available in the mirror location, vcpkg will download it from its original source and then store a copy in the mirror for future use.
```

Asset caching can help with these common development scenarios:

* Improving reliability of continuous integration runs.
* Mirroring download assets in trusted locations for air-gapped environments.
* Maintaining continuity of business if third party sources are changed or become unavailable.

## Configuration

Asset caching is configured via:
* The `X_VCPKG_ASSET_SOURCES` environment variable, or
* The `--x-asset-sources` command-line option.

In both cases, the expected value is a semicolon-delimited list of sources. Each source has a

> specific syntax depending on its storage backend.

Reviewer: Can you expand a bit on what you mean by "specific syntax depending on its storage backend?" An example could be helpful.

See the [asset caching reference documentation](../users/assetcaching.md) to
learn how to configure asset caching sources.

## Next step

> [!div class="nexstepaction"]

> > [Use a custom script as an asset caching source for NuGet](../examples/asset-caching-source-nuget.md)

Reviewer: We could add more here. Maybe a link to the asset caching tutorial?
